"1. Ben: 330 feet is correct. I cannot speak for what the artist wanted people to feel other than welcome. The variation demand of the tooling that the 600 discs had was complicated because there needed to be five different tools, because the artist was very specific about wanting them to have five different degrees of concave, whereas it would have been more efficient to make the installation with them all having the same degree of concave, which would have saved a lot of tooling costs. But the artist was very particular about those details. The 80 disks engraved in languages native to the varying regions represented on the map were determined by working closely with the embassies of each country and continent that was represented to make sure that it would not only have the meaning but also be in the nuanced particularities of the languages most comfortable or informal at times, a way that someone from that land would be used to hearing that phrase uttered. That was really important to the artist and I was really impressed with what they and their team did to work with embassies all over the world to make that happen. \n\n2. Ben: The deck is totally wrong on this stuff. The deck is right about the first union job stuff, but wrong about reclaimed Chicago wood on Z-Clips. The Z-Clips question is not relevant to our work. And the male shoot reference is quite obvious once you have seen an image of the original shoots, but does not read necessarily as anything but a beautiful spiraling band moving through the building by a viewer. \n\n3. Ben: To be honest, we ordered about 18 panels initially that were scaled incorrectly and were able to determine that once we measured them on site and realized that they had shrank from the casting process. So those all had to be reordered, which was a bummer, but a good learning experience. It would have easily taken four times the cost using conventional patterns, and you would not have been able to have it be draft-free. So the design itself was really only possible thanks to the state of technology at the time. And that was brand new right then. The idea about the freight yards came from the team at Gensler, Chicago.\n\n\n4. Ben: I see the marquee as a standalone piece of artwork that I got to design and build, whereas the other stuff was a collaboration with Noel's already established antenna table designers and their manufacturing studio. It would be great if the pamphlet could have its own separate spot for these. The reference was definitely a conscious one between myself as well as the architects and the designers at Gensler. I mean, Bertoa's designs all have the repetitive wireframe and that was just so very much present in the sculpture being discussed. It was an honor to get to quote the history of Knoll in this process. The part that was mine is I came up with using chrome plated steel instead of black pipe, which is what their architects originally had suggested. The directors at Knoll really latched on to that.\n\n5. Ally: We're going. It was an honor to work on the crosses and labor of love. It was every craftsman's dream to be able to work on pieces that will last a lifetime in a sacred site. So there was a lot of reverence and care and detail in each piece.The marble, it is important to note, came from. A closed quarry to the Parthenon. On Mount. It is important to note How special it was to be using marble from the quarry at Mt. Pentelicus which has been closed to and requires sanctioning from both the Greek government and church to be used, but Since that humble church had actually been the founding site and bedrock for the Greek Orthodox Church in Manhattan, it was important enough that the project received permission to use it. And it was just very special to be able to handle and be trusted with those materials and to set our glass within it. Impossible. They all fit because of the work done in the 3D modeling space. So taking their original model with the first marble sample, measuring, editing, and then doing a final site measurement to make sure. And only then did we produce multiples so that it was assured each cross would fit perfectly. It was surprising to see how much their computer machined CNC cut marble openings did not match the drawings we originally received. So we were able to measure and create new models from the actual machine example and then traveled to the site to measure and confirm that the work at the site matched what the sample size was.\\\n\n\n6. Ben: I think he really wanted the cross form to be uninterrupted and appear perfect and balanced. While they were designed with a functional purpose, they also were meant to fit in harmony with the natural flow of the worship service. And throughout the year, the icons that they hold are changed in conjunction with various yearly rituals and celebrations. The reverence that we held for the marble when building these icon stands was definitely apparent as we were ten times more paranoid about its handling than almost any other material we've had to handle in the past. And even the crates that the marble was shipped in have stuck around as sacred reliquaries in our lives. So yeah, definitely a lot of significance was attended to in the handling of those materials.\n\n\n7. Ben: Well, with the set of handrails outside of the Illinois House of Representatives up on the fourth floor, we got extremely close, but also had to make some changes due to ADA and compliance. The way we got most close, I don't think they continued doing on all of the work, but these railings were originally cast in iron, which is a little bit more involved in the process or can be achieved in an industrial foundry really easily domestically. But the railings were most likely purchased from a Sears catalog in the 1880 range, around year 1880, 1890 is what was estimated. And these had been painted and repainted over the years to look like bronze and with gold paint and then back and forth again. And so the first thing I did was remove the original components and remove all of the finish back to the original metal. And even though there were a lot of pieces missing, this is a modular piece in that the sections repeat. And so where a certain detail was missing in one section, we could usually find that in another section and mold just that portion of that particular panel in order to create all the replacement components we would need to restore all the panels to their original beauty. And the other thing that was really interesting is that working with the architecture of the capital, we helped develop and implement an extension of the railing so that it would reach the height ADA compliance requires, as well as install a toe kick plate to keep debris and things like that from being kicked off of the fourth floor down onto the third floor, which stands out a ways proud of the balcony, allowing viewers below a really good view of the finished work. The reason we didn't think the new wood cap would be a violation of the iron work is the original top rail was itself wood, but was in very poor condition. The same millwork that you see used throughout the capitol building was used as that top cap and I think it came together beautifully. Working in the building was one of the biggest honors of my life. At one point, the architect of the capitol took me on a tour inside of the walls and up into the cupola and we emerged out the top of the cupola and he pointed out the direct line of sight view we had the Lincoln's tomb. And the realization that I was truly standing here at the pinnacle of the land of Lincoln observing Springfield and indeed all of Illinois from this perspective was so amazing. And then to my surprise, I was offered a sharpie pen and allowed to sign in a location inside of the cupola's top, top, I don't know what we call it, crow's nest or something. But where a number of people, a lot of other people who have had a chance to contribute to that national treasure and Illinois state treasure have been able to leave their signature. And I'll never forget what an honor that was.\n\n\n8. The butterflies were modeled after two species, the regal fritillary and the black swallowtail. We did reconfigure the entire studio and opened up a whole new section in order to host the 29 artists who would be invited to come work on their butterflies on site. And much of our time during those months was spent helping to facilitate those artists and get them both the information, access to the materials, and just open spaces for them to be able to work in. We did at one point raise some concerns for an artist or two about the materials being used, and a lot of that was filtered through Courtney and CNL Consulting, who was serving both as the curator and the liaison with any of the artists. And in most cases, it turned out that that was part of the artist's intent and that they had confidence in those materials. And in most cases, we were actually pleasantly surprised. There were a few cases where we did see some nature overtaking the finesse of the mediums being used. And in those cases, we had also found those artists had taken some liberty and diverged from our recommended.  \n\n10. Ally: The original premise was like the fabrics used in the store to have these voluminous soft body forms projecting and protruding from the glass, which is a very tricky process and would not quite achieve the fidelity of their logo. So our client reached out to us for castings to laminate to the architectural glass and this combination created the look of these lens forms that were very prismatic. And as you walk up to them, you can see through into the store, but everything is almost looking through a galaxy or lens form. So the glass creates this beautiful viewport in the front of the stores that's very eye-catching as people walk by. As far as we know, it had not been done before to take thick castings of glass and laminate to oversized architectural windows, sheet glass. So in this case, it was experimental. On both sides we had a good feel about it, but until we went through the process, we were all holding our breath a bit. Once seeing the initial prototype, it was just mesmerizing. So having the full logo in the storefronts was a one of a kind, a first of its kind. It was a real treat to get to view the prototype in person. We were invited up to Canada to AGNORA's facility where they had the largest autoclave we've ever seen in our entire life. And when the process by which they laminate these materials together was explained, it was frankly mind-blowing. So we couldn't believe the size of sheets of glass that that company is capable of working with. And their 32-foot long conference table that was a continuous single sheet of glass was strong testament to that. \n\n\n13. Ally: For this table, you know, the thickest area being 2 inches, which may require a couple days, but because we have graduating thicknesses, thick to thin, skinny areas, we actually safeguard and go at least double the thickness to ensure that all areas are coming down nice and slow. So that piece is actually in the kiln for about 10 days. That does include the firing time, it going up to 10, but it's still almost a week alone just to anneal. And luckily, outside of the first prototype, you know, getting that dialed in, it generally does not fail in annealing. If anything, it's in the fine finishing, because we still will have to take it up to a temperature to get that fine polish on top.I'd have to think about how many exist. We have now, I believe that table is 10 years old now. So in terms of additions, maybe 10. But you know, I'd have to do a count. It is a small run, continuous, but it is special in that way. And they really have not differed. I mean, each one is unique in the sense of the way the glass flows. They will all have their own bubble pattern, but the process is streamlined so that we get as much consistency as we can expect from an organic process but the form stays consistent. We've never seen solid cast glass tables anything like this before, so the reason to make it for us as well as our private client was to do something that seems impossible. And that's the way people seem to apprehend it when they experience it in person.\n\n\n20. Ally: Maria's work as an artist has been concentrated around incarceration as a broad topic, and in this project she wanted to give new life to pieces of debris that she was able to collect when one of the local prisons was demolished. And so in coming to glass, coming from these heavy, dense, opaque materials that have a lot of heavy energy in them, coming to glass, in my interpretation at least, was to release some of that and to see these pieces in a new light and to honor the releasing of that heavy energy in the demolition process.There were a lot of layers in the symbolic act of giving these pieces new life, new look, allowing light to pass through them, and for stories to be told in a different way. When Maria brought the pieces, there were, I believe, five bricks and 23 bars of various sizes. It was very surreal to have these seemingly ordinary objects, but knowing the connotation and knowing their history. And it was eerie, in a way, to think of their previous lives and where they were, what they held, who they held, because they were human lives. So there was a bit of reverence, in a way, and just carefulness to handle these materials and to know, to think that they get a new life in that process. Because it's not really what they held so much as what humans used them to hold. And so I think there's a little bit of appropriation happening to help excavate them and help purify. As far as what those debris demanded? So the, you know, the bars themselves actually were heartbreakingly layered. You could see years of paint. Some, most had kind of a stair-step layering of all of the years that had gone by. And we didn't want to strip any of that. So those received a natural seal that was water-soluble and just could carefully cover all of that paint and keep it from sticking to the rubber that was used to take molds of them. And same for the bricks, being an absorbent, porous material. Just using something natural, something that wouldn't disrupt the natural patina and keep a safe barrier for the materials we used on the molds, for the molds.\n\n\n21 Ally: The day that we chose was very carefully scheduled. It felt like transferring human organs across the city from site to hospital because the artists were with their client. The bite was taken and then the apple carefully placed in a Ziploc bag and then quickly brought over to our studio where we were ready with a flask or at least one modified that could be modified quickly to the size of the apple and rubber ready to pour over. So there was very little browning. It was very fresh and because of that the bite marks look like it just happened. Everything was well preserved and the mold smelled wonderful because of the freshness. I know there was definitely a personal connection between them and that particular private collector and it was funny because we were also experimenting with really high fidelity renderings of the apple at the same time which I don't know if we're used in the final product but working with them as a dynamic duo was a fascinating experience and leaves a lot open to interpretation I think. We were privileged to work with them again at the Dry House Museum a few months later.\n\n\n22. Ally: So the Star Award was commissioned by our client for the U.S. Football League, a competitor to modern day NFL. And this was to be their MVP award for that season. And we made two. The base was made out of silver and the stars like crystal. And to have fully polished surfaces is one challenge, but then it also had these intricate etched details along it as well. And so this was one of the nicest awards I think someone could receive. It took a lot of execution, and we have beautiful images but alas despite them sending a driver with a special briefcase designed specifically to hold it, to hand carry it to the game. It still somehow managed to get shattered by the time the briefcase was opened on the other side.\n\n\n23. Ally: There's a lot of optical spice in the combination of something woven and then allowing light to pass through it, so offering translucency of these typically opaque ceramic pieces allowed for beautiful optics in the shadow as well as just illuminating the vessels from within. Even though they look woven, these were actually molded off of ceramic versions she had created. Candon's medium is typically ceramic. Candon's interest in moving the pieces from earthenware to lead crystal was simply to play with the color scheme and to see how the pieces came to life in a new way. Her crystals are typically a black earthenware, sometimes like a terracotta brown, but her palette of choice in glass were these juicy purples and lime greens and jades. And so it was a fresh new look for pieces that she had loved for a long time. As a mold maker, I prefer to preserve the original wherever I can. So actually the same process that Maria's jail debris received, I used a natural water-soluble sealer on the earthenware and was just very careful. They remained intact and the artist was able to continue to display them like any of her other pieces.\n\n\n24. Ally: For annular, the idea was to capture a moment in time from the viewpoint of space and time, the combination. So it is a very, it is map-like. It is also somewhat, it's very celestial. It follows the full calendar year of 2019 and maps the trajectories of the planets in our solar system. So the air bubbles are visual representations of those. If you see the underlying grid, you can start to read the calendar of the year and see how far they traveled. So it is very rational. It is very specific. But stepping back from what it is and what it was influenced from, to me, whenever I walk in, I just love bathing in the subtle glow of it. And feeling the subtle, circular motion within it, it is very calming to me. And the dark background feels inviting to just sit in front of it while you have a bit of light. It feels peaceful. The fused glass made it magical because it created the starfield so that the intentional lines we created to encapsulate air had a language of other bubbles already in the glass that it was in dialogue with. The bronze was really a sun reference and a way to block off the light source. And the result was this corona that we see surrounding the bronze emitting light out into the starfield and across the planetary pathways. So we have this piece in our collection as the first of the series. It is a one-off, but with the opportunity to create one for really any time period. The map dictates the chapter, the time period. So we have talked about doing an annual, annular, and two, because this is a fairly large one, thinking of representing smaller periods of time, perhaps there are different scales. So it feels like a very flexible open series, but currently this is a one-off-one that captures the passage of 1 calendar year... in this case 2019.\n\n\n"