"1. Ben: 330 feet is correct. I cannot speak for what the artist wanted people to feel other than welcome. The variation demand of the tooling that the 600 discs had was complicated because there needed to be five different tools, because the artist was very specific about wanting them to have five different degrees of concave, whereas it would have been more efficient to make the installation with them all having the same degree of concave, which would have saved a lot of tooling costs. But the artist was very particular about those details. The 80 disks engraved in languages native to the varying regions represented on the map were determined by working closely with the embassies of each country and continent that was represented to make sure that it would not only have the meaning but also be in the nuanced particularities of the languages most comfortable or informal at times, a way that someone from that land would be used to hearing that phrase uttered. That was really important to the artist and I was really impressed with what they and their team did to work with embassies all over the world to make that happen. \n\n2. Ben: The deck is totally wrong on this stuff. The deck is right about the first union job stuff, but wrong about reclaimed Chicago wood on Z-Clips. The Z-Clips question is not relevant to our work. And the male shoot reference is quite obvious once you have seen an image of the original shoots, but does not read necessarily as anything but a beautiful spiraling band moving through the building by a viewer. \n\n3. Ben: To be honest, we ordered about 18 panels initially that were scaled incorrectly and were able to determine that once we measured them on site and realized that they had shrank from the casting process. So those all had to be reordered, which was a bummer, but a good learning experience. It would have easily taken four times the cost using conventional patterns, and you would not have been able to have it be draft-free. So the design itself was really only possible thanks to the state of technology at the time. And that was brand new right then. The idea about the freight yards came from the team at Gensler, Chicago.\n\n\n4. Ben: I see the marquee as a standalone piece of artwork that I got to design and build, whereas the other stuff was a collaboration with Noel's already established antenna table designers and their manufacturing studio. It would be great if the pamphlet could have its own separate spot for these. The reference was definitely a conscious one between myself as well as the architects and the designers at Gensler. I mean, Bertoa's designs all have the repetitive wireframe and that was just so very much present in the sculpture being discussed. It was an honor to get to quote the history of Knoll in this process. The part that was mine is I came up with using chrome plated steel instead of black pipe, which is what their architects originally had suggested. The directors at Knoll really latched on to that.\n\n5. Ally: We're going. It was an honor to work on the crosses and labor of love. It was every craftsman's dream to be able to work on pieces that will last a lifetime in a sacred site. So there was a lot of reverence and care and detail in each piece.The marble, it is important to note, came from. A closed quarry to the Parthenon. On Mount. It is important to note How special it was to be using marble from the quarry at Mt. Pentelicus which has been closed to and requires sanctioning from both the Greek government and church to be used, but Since that humble church had actually been the founding site and bedrock for the Greek Orthodox Church in Manhattan, it was important enough that the project received permission to use it. And it was just very special to be able to handle and be trusted with those materials and to set our glass within it. Impossible. They all fit because of the work done in the 3D modeling space. So taking their original model with the first marble sample, measuring, editing, and then doing a final site measurement to make sure. And only then did we produce multiples so that it was assured each cross would fit perfectly. It was surprising to see how much their computer machined CNC cut marble openings did not match the drawings we originally received. So we were able to measure and create new models from the actual machine example and then traveled to the site to measure and confirm that the work at the site matched what the sample size was.\\\n\n\n6. Ben: I think he really wanted the cross form to be uninterrupted and appear perfect and balanced. While they were designed with a functional purpose, they also were meant to fit in harmony with the natural flow of the worship service. And throughout the year, the icons that they hold are changed in conjunction with various yearly rituals and celebrations. The reverence that we held for the marble when building these icon stands was definitely apparent as we were ten times more paranoid about its handling than almost any other material we've had to handle in the past. And even the crates that the marble was shipped in have stuck around as sacred reliquaries in our lives. So yeah, definitely a lot of significance was attended to in the handling of those materials.\n\n\n7. Ben: Well, with the set of handrails outside of the Illinois House of Representatives up on the fourth floor, we got extremely close, but also had to make some changes due to ADA and compliance. The way we got most close, I don't think they continued doing on all of the work, but these railings were originally cast in iron, which is a little bit more involved in the process or can be achieved in an industrial foundry really easily domestically. But the railings were most likely purchased from a Sears catalog in the 1880 range, around year 1880, 1890 is what was estimated. And these had been painted and repainted over the years to look like bronze and with gold paint and then back and forth again. And so the first thing I did was remove the original components and remove all of the finish back to the original metal. And even though there were a lot of pieces missing, this is a modular piece in that the sections repeat. And so where a certain detail was missing in one section, we could usually find that in another section and mold just that portion of that particular panel in order to create all the replacement components we would need to restore all the panels to their original beauty. And the other thing that was really interesting is that working with the architecture of the capital, we helped develop and implement an extension of the railing so that it would reach the height ADA compliance requires, as well as install a toe kick plate to keep debris and things like that from being kicked off of the fourth floor down onto the third floor, which stands out a ways proud of the balcony, allowing viewers below a really good view of the finished work. The reason we didn't think the new wood cap would be a violation of the iron work is the original top rail was itself wood, but was in very poor condition. The same millwork that you see used throughout the capitol building was used as that top cap and I think it came together beautifully. Working in the building was one of the biggest honors of my life. At one point, the architect of the capitol took me on a tour inside of the walls and up into the cupola and we emerged out the top of the cupola and he pointed out the direct line of sight view we had the Lincoln's tomb. And the realization that I was truly standing here at the pinnacle of the land of Lincoln observing Springfield and indeed all of Illinois from this perspective was so amazing. And then to my surprise, I was offered a sharpie pen and allowed to sign in a location inside of the cupola's top, top, I don't know what we call it, crow's nest or something. But where a number of people, a lot of other people who have had a chance to contribute to that national treasure and Illinois state treasure have been able to leave their signature. And I'll never forget what an honor that was.\n\n\n8. Ben The butterflies were modeled after two species, the regal fritillary and the black swallowtail. We did reconfigure the entire studio and opened up a whole new section in order to host the 29 artists who would be invited to come work on their butterflies on site. And much of our time during those months was spent helping to facilitate those artists and get them both the information, access to the materials, and just open spaces for them to be able to work in. We did at one point raise some concerns for an artist or two about the materials being used, and a lot of that was filtered through Courtney and CNL Consulting, who was serving both as the curator and the liaison with any of the artists. And in most cases, it turned out that that was part of the artist's intent and that they had confidence in those materials. And in most cases, we were actually pleasantly surprised. There were a few cases where we did see some nature overtaking the finesse of the mediums being used. And in those cases, we had also found those artists had taken some liberty and diverged from our recommended. \n\n\n9. Ben: Well, the Apeldoorn tulip was specifically bred for Chicago's Magnificent Nile in Holland. And the Dutch general Consulate, was actually involved in baptizing those tulips. For a while they could only be found there on the Mag Mile, but in recent years, bulbs for those tulips have also been made available for people to purchase as well. The other tulip sculptures have colors that were chosen by each of the Magnificent Mile Associations businesses who sponsored them. And one was even sponsored by the Dry House Museum, and its colors are the exact reverse of the Apeldoorn with the yellow tips and red petals. Also in recent years, new species have been selected by those sponsors and their flowerbed tulips have matched. We did our best to perfectly match the build of the tulip by dissecting tulips, and we really wanted them to be pronounced, organic, and feeling like just a perfectly scaled up version of the original.The Chicago outdoors during the springtime can be a very wet and windy place and it certainly puts everything we build out in it to the test and as a way of keeping everything fresh every couple years we've been able to collect the tulip petals and repaint them which in some cases is just covering up some dirt and in other cases maybe some scratches some wear and tear but in this way they continue to remain fresh vibrant and brand new looking year after year\n\n10. Ally: The original premise was like the fabrics used in the store to have these voluminous soft body forms projecting and protruding from the glass, which is a very tricky process and would not quite achieve the fidelity of their logo. So our client reached out to us for castings to laminate to the architectural glass and this combination created the look of these lens forms that were very prismatic. And as you walk up to them, you can see through into the store, but everything is almost looking through a galaxy or lens form. So the glass creates this beautiful viewport in the front of the stores that's very eye-catching as people walk by. As far as we know, it had not been done before to take thick castings of glass and laminate to oversized architectural windows, sheet glass. So in this case, it was experimental. On both sides we had a good feel about it, but until we went through the process, we were all holding our breath a bit. Once seeing the initial prototype, it was just mesmerizing. So having the full logo in the storefronts was a one of a kind, a first of its kind. It was a real treat to get to view the prototype in person. We were invited up to Canada to AGNORA's facility where they had the largest autoclave we've ever seen in our entire life. And when the process by which they laminate these materials together was explained, it was frankly mind-blowing. So we couldn't believe the size of sheets of glass that that company is capable of working with. And their 32-foot long conference table that was a continuous single sheet of glass was strong testament to that. \n\n\n11. Ben: This was a really fun collaboration with the artist known as Secret of Manna and Hanane Hanafri for an organization called Yollocalli, which is a youth art access program at the Mexican Art Museum. They brought the class initially to the shop and we showed them what the process would be like before they started creating their sculptures. They were able to see how we would be planning to make 3D prints that would be able to be made molds of and how we would pour metal in. And we even did a small demonstration with a tiny mold so they could see metal being poured that day. And I think it got them really excited because what they came back to the shop with for the actual pour was really impressive. And everyone's piece was just so unique and they were so thrilled to be watching it all happen. we cast one model early and did a big reveal and everyone was so excited to see the object in metal even though everyone had seen all the objects as 3d prints seeing it in metal i think really made them so so so so so so impressed and grateful for what they were getting to take home with them. During the poor day, we were only able to cast a few of them, and it took us a week or so to cast everything. So the next time students were able to see it was after the finish had been done, and that's when it really came together. And the show that they built around them was so beautiful, with each of the gargoyles in a small garden of flowers presented on pedestals in just such a beautiful manner. Each of them elevated with its own space, but also equally displayed as all the rest. I was really impressed with the use of flowers and garden elements in the final exhibition. \n\n\n12. The deck is right on this one and we should update the site. Ben: Yes, everything we fabricated ended up getting a powder coat finish and even the parts that we bought, such as the shelving that was used for the clothing racks, was also sent in to have the same powder coat so that the whole room would read as a very specific monochrome. This was a fantastic collaboration with Chelsea Lombardo. And the lighting was designed and built by Max Davis.\n\n\n13. Ally: For this table, you know, the thickest area being 2 inches, which may require a couple days, but because we have graduating thicknesses, thick to thin, skinny areas, we actually safeguard and go at least double the thickness to ensure that all areas are coming down nice and slow. So that piece is actually in the kiln for about 10 days. That does include the firing time, it going up to 10, but it's still almost a week alone just to anneal. And luckily, outside of the first prototype, you know, getting that dialed in, it generally does not fail in annealing. If anything, it's in the fine finishing, because we still will have to take it up to a temperature to get that fine polish on top.I'd have to think about how many exist. We have now, I believe that table is 10 years old now. So in terms of additions, maybe 10. But you know, I'd have to do a count. It is a small run, continuous, but it is special in that way. And they really have not differed. I mean, each one is unique in the sense of the way the glass flows. They will all have their own bubble pattern, but the process is streamlined so that we get as much consistency as we can expect from an organic process but the form stays consistent. We've never seen solid cast glass tables anything like this before, so the reason to make it for us as well as our private client was to do something that seems impossible. And that's the way people seem to apprehend it when they experience it in person.\n\n\n14. Ben: I got the feeling they wanted it to read like a smooth yet aged modern reception. it's design has a unique sense of floating because the entire bottom of the desk curves inward you almost feel as though this pebble could roll away but it doesn't it sits majestically balanced and gives you a feeling that this entire building is intentional and is here for a reason. On this one, the details I'm most proud of have to do with concealing some pore dents that were created in the fabrication by another shop on the end pieces and making them match the consistency and smoothness of everything else, as well as applying this patina on site was a really remarkable feat and required a lot of confidence by the whole team and myself especially since I made this up. \n\n15. Ben: Well, bronze is definitely a little bit of a power play and communication of refined sensibilities. And since the Pritzker Group is a financial foundation, I think that that was a really nice contrast to the bright red wall, the feature wall, that the desk stands in front of. So it balances old and new and asserts a knowledge of value and taste while being clean and welcoming and even fun in its pairing. It was a challenge to install the cladding on site with a lot of union workers around, with us clearly being a specialist team who are not used to working on a union site, period. Honestly, our work was so tight and precise, I don't know if we could have done that if we hadn't had the desk body in the shop when we were preparing the cladding and we glued shim gap everywhere so all the measurements were really precise and in the end I had to hand cut some of the pieces of bronze myself to bevel on the table saw in order to make that precision happen. \n\n\n16. Ben: The idea happened on a day when, at the time, Bo, Max, Chu, Jason, and myself were having a conversation about what we wanted to try to make our project be, to take to the design fair in New York. And no one could agree on a concept, and it was kind of starting to become a little bit of a heated debate when we all moved to a kitchen area. And at one point, someone pointed at a steel folding chair and said, let's just make that in solid bronze (I think who is debated still), and so we started a conversation around it and agreed this timeless design hadn't really been given the Eames level respect but was as everyday an object as one could be. And so myself, having been the person running this bronze manufacturing business at the time, immediately started analyzing, well, it would be pretty easy. I can see, you know, it would be two or three molds like this, and it would definitely be manageable in the time frame. And this ordinary object, the reason that I was so interested is because it definitely, it was the gym assembly chair, the one that they kept stored in the closets at high schools. Its utilitarian functionality had made it universal. The thing I think we didn't anticipate was the sheer weight of the final assembled piece and just how much that would impact the experience of it. On the first day of the Wanted Design Exhibition in 2013, we were part of an area that was curated by Cappellini, and he was walking through and straightening things up and went to take our chair away, thinking it was just a standard folding chair and couldn't move it at all. It made him step back, and then I understand he just started laughing, and I wouldn't be surprised if that's part of the reason why it ended up on the cover of the Design Week coverage in the New York Times that year.\n\n\n17. Ben: The Boolean that we refer to actually refers to the aluminum clip lamp and how its shape is Booleaned from a bubble of glass, leaving this shape, who has an interior that is determined by the exterior of the original aluminum clip light. In that way, connecting this lamp to that clip light in lineage. This remains our best-selling object to date and was sold to businesses both overseas and domestic as well as many luxury kitchens and individual units.\n\n\n18. Ben: Yes, this is the first project where we really utilized our ability to change aluminum to a bronze finish, an oil rubbed bronze finish. And it was just an object of necessity because the design that the company had committed to was bronze in the renderings. And my job was to make this wall possible. My company's business owner had made a promise for a price that would be not feasible. And so this sent the problem solver in me into a design inquiry about how we could still create a sense of a non-repeating ripple wall, but using a limited amount of tooling. And that's where the tessellation and edge symmetry concept first came from. Connecting this sort of bridged my early history as a sculptor training in patina at art foundries to my new life in Chicago as a designer and bespoke fabrication specialist. The patina trick was definitely where the inspiration came from when later we would use it again on the uber feature wall, and the hand rubbed modeling added to the illusion in the best of ways.\n\n\n19. Ben: With KUMA's, we were aware that it was really important to keep the authentic culture at the forefront and not try to contrive that. And so that's why we involved the artists, well, not the artists, the employees of the franchise to contribute their own illustrations and panels that we would incorporate into creating the bar itself. And working with one of the cooks, who is an incredible filigree illustrator, we developed the stained glass windows that, using his illustrations and the talents of another of our friends, Steven Krejcik. The below bar lights and the stage truss for the hanging bar shelves were another signature look all lent themselves a little bit to a sense of theme, But you need some coherent elements like that when you are opening new locations in multiple places. The honesty at Kuma's is the culture itself and the people working there and the layers that they added over the top of that.\n\n\n20. Ally: Maria's work as an artist has been concentrated around incarceration as a broad topic, and in this project she wanted to give new life to pieces of debris that she was able to collect when one of the local prisons was demolished. And so in coming to glass, coming from these heavy, dense, opaque materials that have a lot of heavy energy in them, coming to glass, in my interpretation at least, was to release some of that and to see these pieces in a new light and to honor the releasing of that heavy energy in the demolition process.There were a lot of layers in the symbolic act of giving these pieces new life, new look, allowing light to pass through them, and for stories to be told in a different way. When Maria brought the pieces, there were, I believe, five bricks and 23 bars of various sizes. It was very surreal to have these seemingly ordinary objects, but knowing the connotation and knowing their history. And it was eerie, in a way, to think of their previous lives and where they were, what they held, who they held, because they were human lives. So there was a bit of reverence, in a way, and just carefulness to handle these materials and to know, to think that they get a new life in that process. Because it's not really what they held so much as what humans used them to hold. And so I think there's a little bit of appropriation happening to help excavate them and help purify. As far as what those debris demanded? So the, you know, the bars themselves actually were heartbreakingly layered. You could see years of paint. Some, most had kind of a stair-step layering of all of the years that had gone by. And we didn't want to strip any of that. So those received a natural seal that was water-soluble and just could carefully cover all of that paint and keep it from sticking to the rubber that was used to take molds of them. And same for the bricks, being an absorbent, porous material. Just using something natural, something that wouldn't disrupt the natural patina and keep a safe barrier for the materials we used on the molds, for the molds.\n\n\n21 Ally: The day that we chose was very carefully scheduled. It felt like transferring human organs across the city from site to hospital because the artists were with their client. The bite was taken and then the apple carefully placed in a Ziploc bag and then quickly brought over to our studio where we were ready with a flask or at least one modified that could be modified quickly to the size of the apple and rubber ready to pour over. So there was very little browning. It was very fresh and because of that the bite marks look like it just happened. Everything was well preserved and the mold smelled wonderful because of the freshness. I know there was definitely a personal connection between them and that particular private collector and it was funny because we were also experimenting with really high fidelity renderings of the apple at the same time which I don't know if we're used in the final product but working with them as a dynamic duo was a fascinating experience and leaves a lot open to interpretation I think. We were privileged to work with them again at the Dry House Museum a few months later.\n\n\n22. Ally: So the Star Award was commissioned by our client for the U.S. Football League, a competitor to modern day NFL. And this was to be their MVP award for that season. And we made two. The base was made out of silver and the stars like crystal. And to have fully polished surfaces is one challenge, but then it also had these intricate etched details along it as well. And so this was one of the nicest awards I think someone could receive. It took a lot of execution, and we have beautiful images but alas despite them sending a driver with a special briefcase designed specifically to hold it, to hand carry it to the game. It still somehow managed to get shattered by the time the briefcase was opened on the other side.\n\n\n23. Ally: There's a lot of optical spice in the combination of something woven and then allowing light to pass through it, so offering translucency of these typically opaque ceramic pieces allowed for beautiful optics in the shadow as well as just illuminating the vessels from within. Even though they look woven, these were actually molded off of ceramic versions she had created. Candon's medium is typically ceramic. Candon's interest in moving the pieces from earthenware to lead crystal was simply to play with the color scheme and to see how the pieces came to life in a new way. Her crystals are typically a black earthenware, sometimes like a terracotta brown, but her palette of choice in glass were these juicy purples and lime greens and jades. And so it was a fresh new look for pieces that she had loved for a long time. As a mold maker, I prefer to preserve the original wherever I can. So actually the same process that Maria's jail debris received, I used a natural water-soluble sealer on the earthenware and was just very careful. They remained intact and the artist was able to continue to display them like any of her other pieces.\n\n\n24. Ally: For annular, the idea was to capture a moment in time from the viewpoint of space and time, the combination. So it is a very, it is map-like. It is also somewhat, it's very celestial. It follows the full calendar year of 2019 and maps the trajectories of the planets in our solar system. So the air bubbles are visual representations of those. If you see the underlying grid, you can start to read the calendar of the year and see how far they traveled. So it is very rational. It is very specific. But stepping back from what it is and what it was influenced from, to me, whenever I walk in, I just love bathing in the subtle glow of it. And feeling the subtle, circular motion within it, it is very calming to me. And the dark background feels inviting to just sit in front of it while you have a bit of light. It feels peaceful. The fused glass made it magical because it created the starfield so that the intentional lines we created to encapsulate air had a language of other bubbles already in the glass that it was in dialogue with. The bronze was really a sun reference and a way to block off the light source. And the result was this corona that we see surrounding the bronze emitting light out into the starfield and across the planetary pathways. So we have this piece in our collection as the first of the series. It is a one-off, but with the opportunity to create one for really any time period. The map dictates the chapter, the time period. So we have talked about doing an annual, annular, and two, because this is a fairly large one, thinking of representing smaller periods of time, perhaps there are different scales. So it feels like a very flexible open series, but currently this is a one-off-one that captures the passage of 1 calendar year... in this case 2019.\n\nWe need to add the Space Force coins. We need to add LFO, which is the huge 7th floor build out we did with glass and bronze steel partitions and Palimpsest (2025) with Industry of the Ordinary and the Matcha Bar and Chase Bank Tower \n--\n\nBen Stagl - Principal\n\n\nwww.chilabstudio.com\n\nwww.benstagl.com\nhttps://www.linkedin.com/in/ben-stagl-93052848"